I love this library.
>> It is It is a It is absolutely beautiful
library.
>> Are you a big reader?
>> Um you know, I mean, I I I read a lot in
general. I don't know that I've had
>> [laughter]
>> that much time in over the last year or
so.
>> Dario Amodei is an unlikely AI
celebrity.
He's known for warning the world about
the risks of artificial intelligence.
Now, his company is an AI frontrunner
valued at nearly a trillion dollars.
>> You're shipping so much so fast. How are
you doing that?
>> We use Claude, you know, across the
product development cycle. It allows us
to release very fast.
>> Founded by a team [music] of Open AI
defectors in 2021, Anthropic started out
as an underdog lab.
Today, it's the breakout star wiping
billions in value off software stocks,
[music] going head-to-head with the
Pentagon, and creating models allegedly
powerful enough [music] to burst through
the walls of modern cybersecurity.
>> Some of the early companies that we gave
this to said things [music] like, "This
is a super weapon. Please don't release
this."
>> [applause]
>> Guiding Anthropic through this is a
sibling duo.
>> [music]
>> Dario, the brother and visionary, and
Daniela, the sister and operator, who
puts Dario's swirling cosmic thoughts
into [music] action.
>> Dario and I, we've always been really
close since we were little, but I think
we always really wanted to do something
big together.
>> Okay, but when you argue, who wins?
>> Um
>> No one.
As the AI arms race escalates, the
Amodeis are eager to establish
themselves as the good guys.
But Anthropic's technology could have
profound implications for how humanity
works, learns, thinks, even fights wars.
[music]
>> Anthropic is run by an ideological
lunatic. This is a debate about what the
proper use of AI by the government
[music] is.
>> At some point, the models become very
dangerous. You know, the bad guys will
have it, too. And at that point, we have
to
>> [music]
>> make sure the good guys have an even
better model.
>> The name Anthropic actually comes from
the Greek word for human,
which speaks to their mission to build
responsible AI for the long-term benefit
of humanity. [music]
Can you actually do that when you're
building the most powerful technology in
the world?
>> [music]
>> You are at the center of the AI universe
right now. What does that feel like?
>> The experience I've had for my whole
career and certainly the whole time at
Anthropic is that there's this kind of
smooth exponential.
And the experience the smooth
exponential is nothing's happening,
nothing's happening, nothing's
happening, little things happen and then
zoom, it goes crazy. So, you know, I was
watching this graph for a while and I
said, oh yeah, we'll probably become the
you know, the the AI company with you
know, the the most revenue and the most
valuation some sometime around this time
and and indeed indeed it has happened.
We're just keeping in mind all the
things we usually keep in mind. You
know, how do we train good models? How
do we put them in good products? How do
we make sure that everything's safe?
>> What were you like as a kid growing up
in San Francisco? I know your your dad
was a leather craftsman, your mom worked
in libraries. How did that shape you?
>> You know, the whole you know, like first
you know, internet revolution was
happening around me and I had absolutely
no interest in it.
I was just interested [music] in like
doing math and like scroll, you know,
scrolling things. I was interested in
like, [music] you know, understanding
the universe. I was interested in
science fiction.
I think I just felt a lot of curiosity
about the world.
>> What was it like growing up with Dario?
>> He was so smart. [music] Uh he was
taking, you know, calculus uh when he
was, you know, in I think like middle
school. He [music] took math classes at
UC Berkeley when he was in high school.
I was actually more into [music] to
reading and arts. So, we were almost
like complete complements in that way.
>> Dario studied neuroscience [music]
before turning to AI at Baidu and later
Google, while Daniela started out as an
early employee at Stripe.
They live together in San Francisco
along with Daniela's husband, Holden
Karnofsky.
Then, in 2016, Dario joined the newly
formed OpenAI, [music]
followed by Daniela in 2018.
The company began as a nonprofit [music]
that promised a safe, more open path to
superintelligence.
>> I think we need to think right now about
how we want this deployed, um how
everyone gets to benefit from it, how
we're going to govern it, uh how we're
going to make it safe and sort of good
for humanity. [music]
>> At OpenAI, Dario developed the concept
of scaling laws, predicting that large
language models would improve simply by
adding more data and computing power,
even if the underlying algorithm [music]
stayed the same.
>> At that point in time, I know it sounds
crazy now looking back, not a lot
[music] of people believed, "Hey, scale
up is the way that these models are
going to get smarter and better." That
was sort of an unusual, countercultural,
scientific
>> [music]
>> perspective that I think was really held
by our, you know, founding research
team.
>> That approach helped supercharge
OpenAI's models, paving the way for
ChatGPT.
But the Amodeis reportedly clashed with
Altman over the company's direction and
values.
Altman has said, "For all the
differences I have with Anthropic, I
mostly trust them as a company."
>> Your decision to leave OpenAI has become
Silicon Valley lore. What did you
disagree on?
>> Look, I'll I'm going to say it. I'm
going to say it very simply. There are
many valid disagreements to be had on
safety. We certainly had some of those
disagreements with them, but, you know,
people that that that that alone is not
sufficient to leave. When you feel that
you can't trust someone, when you feel
that their values are not what they say
they are, when you feel that they're not
honest, that makes it very hard to, you
know, to continue to work with a
company, to continue to trust the
company. And look, at the end of the
day,
why argue with someone when you don't
have the same vision and you don't trust
them?
The way to resolve it is you go off and
do your thing, they go off and do their
thing.
>> So, this is Presidio Park.
When Dario and Daniela decided to leave
OpenAI to start Anthropic, this is where
the early team would get together. It
was during the pandemic, so the story
goes, and a bunch of early employees
would come here, they'd pull up a chair
on the grass, they'd have lunch, and
they'd talk about what they were
building.
>> When we started this company, there were
seven co-founders, of which me and
Daniela are two, and now, you know, we
we're we're the we're the basically the
only company in the space that has all
of its co-founders still here. You don't
get to, you know, be a company of the
size and scale that we are without
happening. Like that almost never
happens.
>> From the start, Anthropic pitched itself
as the ultimate safety-conscious AI
company. [music]
Dario has published long essays with
names like Machines of Loving Grace
>> [music]
>> and The Adolescence of Technology,
musing on the miraculous potential of
AI, as well as the worst-case scenarios.
Anthropic's chatbot, Claude, has been
trained to follow a set of principles
called a constitution, intended to keep
it on the straight and narrow.
>> Claude has a very distinct style and
feel.
>> A human name. What are you trying to
convey?
>> I think when people interact with Claude
versus, you know, other systems, there
is more of a feeling of I like to
describe it as professional warmth. So,
the goal is not for it to be your best
friend, but it's not for it to be sort
of cold, rote, calculating. It should
feel approachable, but distant, right?
Professional.
>> Anthropic has talked about teaching
Claude to be good.
What is a good model? What is a bad
model? You don't want a model that lies
accidentally or intentionally, right?
Lying we call hallucinations, it makes
something up. The models are just
trained to predict the next word, so
sometimes they don't know and they just
invent something. Uh models sometimes,
as we've shown in our research, can
purposely try to deceive you. We have to
make sure that doesn't happen in
production models that we expose to
customers. And then there's a lot of
work around harmlessness, just making
sure that the model is not accidentally
producing, you know, information that is
wrong or harmful or or could cause
someone to do something bad.
>> Whose values are being put into Claude?
Like is there a universal good? There's
so many religions, so many different
beliefs. Like how do you even decide
that?
>> So of course there's no universal
standard for what makes something
helpful or harmless, but there are
founding documents in human history like
the UN Declaration of Human Rights that
we can use to train Claude's character.
And I think, you know, interestingly on
the religious front, we've actually
started to have a lot of conversations
with religious leaders around how should
we think about, you know, Claude the
entity and how can we bake in some of
the kind of core values that are
consistent across religions, types of
belief, um that really just transcend,
you know, a specific worldview, but that
are really things that human beings have
been grappling with for for millennia.
>> Have you tried to give Claude a trait
that didn't take or was there any trait
that emerged that surprised you?
>> I think in the early days, it's funny to
look back on them now, the kind of early
Claude's, Claude 2 era. Sometimes Claude
would be almost a little bit nanny-ish.
Claude was like, "I'm really concerned
about you." And you're like, "Claude, I
was asking for the weather, right?" It
was like it was something really benign.
Thankfully, we didn't, you know, release
most of most of the most egregious
versions of those, but I think it is,
you know, it is when you think about it,
it's like tuning a dial. And so our
researchers have this very fine needle
to thread in order to land at [music]
the center of that.
>> Whatever Anthropic is doing with Claude,
it seems to be working. [music]
Anthropic's revenue has skyrocketed over
the past year, making the company
profitable for the first time.
That's largely thanks to the company's
focus on more lucrative business tools.
Claude Code, a major leap that automated
large chunks of software engineering,
[music]
and Claude Co-work, which gave that
power to everyone else.
>> Now, early on, others focused on fun,
splashy consumer apps. You made a bet on
coding and enterprise.
Why did you make that bet? Was it a Was
it a values decision or a business
decision?
>> Look, if you pick a business model that
fundamentally conflicts with your
values, you're going to have a hard
time, right? Either you betray your own
values or you become irrelevant. And so,
when we thought about it, we said,
"Look, you know, we've seen the world of
social media, the consumer world, it it
really seems to, you know, encourage
engagement, even addiction, you know,
the slop we've seen with AI video
models." It's like, "What's going on? Is
it want to maximize the number of
minutes that you're you're paying
attention to?" Because that's the
advertising revenue driven incentive.
Whereas, if we look at enterprise, look,
I mean, you know, we want to make these
models useful to people. We want to use
AI to, uh, you know, cure diseases that
we couldn't cure before, right? Well,
that's working with biotech, it's
working with pharma, it's working with
academic research groups. All of those
are enterprises, right? We want to use
AI to, like, you know, to make energy
cheaper and more efficient. That's
That's all enterprise. And so, I think
it served us well to have this business
model that largely aligns with our
values.
>> Soon after Claude Co-work was released,
$285 billion in market value vanished
overnight. Traders called it the
SAS-pocalypse.
>> This kind of white-collar wipeout story
in the software sector, terrifying.
>> Some of those are down for 9 days in a
row, so clearly the tension is building.
>> If AI continues improving at this pace,
how much of traditional software gets
replaced and how fast?
>> I think with AI like the pie is getting
bigger, right? So, the existing
incumbents may be smaller in relative
terms. Some of them may may go down in
value. Some of them may even may even go
out of business if they don't if they
don't adapt in the right way. But like I
would guess that the software industry
gets larger not smaller. Although there
will be some big losers. Those who don't
kind of see what's coming, who don't
identify the most they have, they're
going to have a really hard time.
>> They had sort of the quiet cafe. [music]
>> Anthropic's recent growth spurt might
not have happened without this man,
>> [music]
>> Boris Cherney, the engineer behind
Claude Code and Claude Co-work.
When Anthropic hired him in 2024,
Cherney was living a very different life
in rural Japan.
>> There was a lot of farmers markets, like
very slow. We were making miso with that
sort of the big hobby. And I remember
using the first AI chatbot that I'd ever
used and it just took my breath away.
[music] And I was just like, "Oh my god,
I have to I have to just be a part of
this." And I I'm also just such a big
sci-fi reader and so I just know how bad
this thing can go. Like this technology
is incredibly powerful and so we move
[clears throat] move back.
>> You created Claude Code.
You led the development of Claude
Co-work. What problem were you trying to
solve?
>> If you look at the coding products, they
were all pretty simple. It was like it
was sort of like, you know, like
complete the word, complete the
sentence. That was the extent of AI in
coding.
And we just wanted to make a way bigger
bet. And our bet was we think actually a
coding agent can do all of it. A year
and a half ago, you wrote the code by
hand.
And sometimes you press tab and it would
auto complete a line.
Now I talk to my Claude and it writes
the code and then while it does that, I
talk to the next Claude and it writes
some code. And at any point I have
either, you know, like a few Claude's
running and up to a few thousand
Claude's running doing things.
>> How much code is Claude writing
internally for engineers here?
>> It's writing almost all of it. On my
team, so for me personally, it's been
writing 100% of my code for at least 6
months. The work of engineering has just
completely changed. I feel like I
suddenly have superpowers. I have like a
jetpack. And engineering has never been
this fun.
>> Can we give Claude [music] a spin?
>> Yeah, let's do this.
>> All right.
>> All right, so let's let's make like a
little recipe app. So, make a recipe
app.
What do you want it to do?
>> I would love it to suggest [music]
meals
>> Mhm.
>> [clears throat]
>> for the week.
>> So, you know, this is going to take me
maybe a few minutes, and
let's let's just see if Claude builds
this.
>> All right. Ooh, it gave me some options.
Let's do
>> These look pretty tasty, actually.
>> I could do a Greek chicken power bowl.
When I click on
recipe, I want it to show me how to do
it.
Thank you.
>> Aw. [laughter]
I'm sure Claude appreciates
>> I always try to say thank [music] you.
>> Yeah, I always try to be nice, too.
>> I don't know.
A recipe app might not be the most
mind-blowing demo of Anthropic's
technology, but what Claude code just
did in minutes used to take hours
[music] or days.
For some, that looks like a big
opportunity. Are you like nervous about
next week, or is it like
>> What's next week?
>> Your developer conference.
>> Oh, yes. Yes. [laughter]
There's so many things happening every
week.
>> [applause]
>> Year-over-year API volume is up nearly
17x on the
>> In the last 12 months, [music] we
shipped eight frontier models to
developers and users.
>> Welcome to the second annual Code with
Claude conference, [music] where Claude
super fans come hoping to get a glimpse
of the future.
>> We're having a lot of fun. There's
[music] a ton of adrenaline.
>> This is the first year we've grown
faster than the exponential. [music] In
the first quarter of this year, we saw,
if you were to annualize it, 80x growth
per year.
>> [music]
>> I use Claude everyday
in the form of Claude code to do all
sorts of stuff, not just write code.
[music] I write way more code than I did
5 years ago.
I've got the confidence
of I don't know what a 22-year-old with
VC money. I'm not 22.
>> My friend invited me and it's been it's
amazing as someone that's not really
technical is I think it's really
interesting just to see what everyone's
working on, what's out there.
>> I think the the concerning part or the
and the exciting part is hey, they can
do things that are we couldn't dream of
and timelines we couldn't ever expect.
But the kind of alternate side of that
reality is you really have to be
prepared because they will really be a
thousand times more productive.
>> All of this raises an obvious question.
Will engineers be the first casualties
of the AI they're building? It's been
revenge of the nerds for a while. Is
that over?
>> [laughter]
>> I think we all become nerds.
>> But what happens to the actual nerds?
>> I think the actual nerds well,
they're they have to figure it out.
Yeah. I think for a lot of them
the skill that they had before is going
to help them in the future.
Because they sort of have a pretty big
head start. They do a lot of things that
are not coding. Engineers also have to
talk to users. They have to plan. They
have to think about what's next. So I
think these are still parts of
engineering that are going to stick
around.
>> Silicon Valley may have AI fever, but
elsewhere the mood is less upbeat. 70%
of Americans think AI will kill jobs and
nearly a third worry theirs will be one
of them.
Dario Amodei has been outspoken about
this issue and some of his predictions
don't exactly sound reassuring.
>> I think we could have this very unusual
combination of very fast GDP growth and
high unemployment or at least
underemployment or you know, low-wage
job, a lot of low-wage jobs, high
inequality.
>> You've been really direct about job
loss.
AI could eliminate half of all
entry-level white-collar jobs in the
next 1 to 5 years. That was a year ago.
AI has moved incredibly fast. Is it
still 50% or is it higher?
>> I don't know exactly, but I'm I'm still
I'm still pretty concerned. I'm still
the same order of concern. You know, we
are seeing right now that AI is making
people more productive, but that's the
usual hump. You automate 90% of the job,
great, people are 10 times more
productive in the other 10% cuz they're
10 times more leveraged, but eventually
it gets close to 100%. Now, the sequel
to that is, well, then you have to find
something else for them to do. Right
now, AI makes the software engineers
more productive, even though AI writes
all the code or almost all the code.
But, we're already starting to see the
beginning of like,
you know, there may be some people that
it's it's not making more productive,
that it's better for the AI to just to
just do the thing.
>> How does that sit with you?
>> Um it's it's very uncomfortable.
Yeah.
I'm I I I think this is this is the
reason why I chose to go to Anthropic.
And I think this is the reason that a
lot of people here chose to go here.
Is artificial intelligence is this force
that is far bigger than we are.
But here we can hopefully make it go a
little bit better.
>> Do you feel like it's your job to do
something about that or is that someone
else's problem?
>> I think it's a thing that we have to
talk about. We have to advocate for it.
Ultimately, it's up to society to solve
it. This is bigger than one company.
>> There has been a lot of pushback on, you
know,
your and I know you've said you're
trying to warn people, but that, you
know, you're you know, Jensen Huang said
you're conflating tasks with jobs.
>> AI's creating jobs.
Anybody who is saying that AI is wiping
out jobs is scaring people.
>> Other folks have said this, you know,
it's sort of doom marketing that
benefits Anthropic.
>> I want to be really clear and push back
hard against this. In every interview, I
talk about the
the possible ways to address these risks
from tax and macroeconomic policy to
what the new jobs are. In the
adolescence of technology, I have like
five pages where I lay out the
difference between tasks and jobs, why
this time is different than other times.
But, social media, which I detest, which
I detest as a category, people have
these 3-second clips from you know, from
a year ago. I've I've written much more
carefully about these things where where
I talk about the risks. So, these are
this this the idea that this is cheap
marketing is itself cheap marketing. I
think it's it's part of the disease of
Silicon Valley. It's been caught up in
this social media world of of of 3
seconds. And so, my message is just
definitely not doom is coming. My
message is like this is something, you
know, that we should see coming, that
we're worried about, and that we need to
actually respond to positively.
>> Beyond the software industry, the
potential impact of AI on jobs seems
harder to predict.
Anthropic has published a paper
estimating which fields could make the
most use of AI in the near future.
If its predictions are [music] right,
management, finance, and legal jobs
could soon look very different.
Which jobs go away? Who gets replaced?
[music] And what new jobs are created?
>> So, no one knows for sure um
>> [music]
>> because you know, the economy's
unpredictable, right? The thing that
that we have going for us here is the
pie is going to expand a lot. And so,
because the pie is going to expand a
lot, there are probably going to be
places where people can go. It's just a
matter of finding them fast enough.
>> So, play this out for me a little bit.
You know, you wake up in 5 years,
you know,
what does this country look like? What
are those people doing? Because if
there's that much unemployment, is that
not how revolutions start?
>> Yeah, no. This is the outcome we want to
prevent. This is absolutely the outcome
we want to prevent. I think there's a
few places. None of them are guaranteed.
We're not sure. But, there's the
physical world. We need a lot of more
people to make, build, manufacture
things in the physical world. Anything
that's human-centered. I think that's
going to be a big deal, right? People,
or at least some people, want to talk to
humans. So, these kind of human
relationship-driven jobs, like I think
those are going to be important. And I
think there will be some
effort by the humans to kind of direct
the AIs, right? At some level, it has to
be in line with someone's values and
someone's intentions. And And so, I I
think there's going to be some role
there, although I don't know how thin
versus how thick it will be.
>> I think I feel a little bit more hopeful
that humans will continue to find ways
to leverage AI to be productive, to do
the parts of the work that are
meaningful to us, that only humans can
do. I think the human-to-human
interaction will never fully go away.
The example I often reach for is is what
will happen in medicine.
Today, we hire doctors who are expert
diagnosticians.
>> [sighs]
>> I think AI is going to soon be pretty
good at telling you what the suite of
options of things that are wrong with
you, and what tests to run, and you
won't need a doctor to do that.
But, an AI can't physically examine you
and say, "Hey, does it hurt when I
press, you know, here?" They can't have
a bedside manner with you that says,
like, "Tell me how you're feeling about
this. How are you How are you coping
with going through this process?" And I
think we're going to pivot something
like medicine to be much more focused on
the interpersonal, because the
diagnostic tools are going to become
much better. Um but, the interpersonal
human part, that's That's not going to
change.
>> Explain this to me. Daniela runs
day-to-day operations. All the
leadership team reports to you.
>> Yes.
>> No one reports to you. That sounds like
a pretty sweet job.
>> It's incredibly [laughter] freeing. It
lets me do all the things that I do much
more easily than I would otherwise.
>> And she does all the work? Is that what
you're saying?
>> I If [laughter] if you
If you had to go through the things I
had to go through during DOW or
No.
>> The Amadis hope AI can have a utopian
influence on society.
But there's no denying the technology's
destructive and dystopian potential.
Anthropic is at the center of a
technological arms race
>> [music]
>> with powerful governments vying for
control.
Dario has charged head-on into this
arena.
>> [music]
>> He's not afraid to blast his
competitors.
>> And then I think there are some players
who, you know, who who are Yoloing, who
who pull pull the wrist dial too far and
[music] I'm very concerned.
>> Who is Yoloing?
>> So, I
That's a question I'm not going to
answer.
>> Or critique the US government and
Anthropic's own partners for selling AI
chips [music] to China.
>> It's a bit like, you know, I I I don't
know, like selling selling, you know,
nuclear weapons to to North Korea. I've
been [music] uh very outspoken about the
need for export controls on chips to
China. I say this because I think it
would be really bad for America, for,
you know, the state of democracy in the
world, for, you know, China to be ahead
in AI capabilities. And, you know, it's
it's like some of the chip makers
obviously don't agree with that view,
but it hasn't stopped me from saying it
even after we've signed more
partnerships. I'm sure they wish we
didn't say these things, but these
things are what are what I believe and
so, you know, look, we're all adults
here. We can work together on one thing
while disagreeing about another thing.
>> Amadi's statements about geopolitics
date back to his days at Caltech. As a
sophomore physics student, he developed
a reputation as an anti-war advocate who
believed scientists shouldn't sit in
ivory towers.
>> [music]
>> It's a worldview that would later define
Anthropic's position on the future of
war.
>> You've had a long-standing anti-war
stance [music] and yet you were one of
the first AI companies to sign a
contract with the Department of Defense
to operate on classified networks. These
are the networks that the US uses to
fight wars. Explain that.
>> Look, I mean, the world changes. Like,
you know, my view of this technology,
you know, when I see Russia invading
Ukraine, when I see the risk of China
invading Taiwan, you know, it worries me
that we have a kind of resurgent
authoritarian block. Um that they're
very aggressive and that we need to
defend ourselves. You know, I may not
agree with every policy of I of either
administration, but you know, that's why
we've generally been supportive of this.
>> You've been working with Palantir since
2024.
>> That's right.
>> You know, their technology is used by
ICE, police departments, in Gaza. Is
Claude being used for surveillance in
other ways?
>> Uh we we don't work with ICE either
through Palantir or anyone else. We
don't work with CBP. I don't believe we
work in Gaza. We're very careful about,
you know, scoping our engagements to
things that we believe in.
>> In 2025, Anthropic, along with OpenAI,
xAI, and Google, won a $200 million
contract with the Pentagon.
>> [music]
>> Anthropic framed it as an opportunity to
become the leading AI vendor for the
government.
Claude was reportedly used by the US
military in the operation to seize
Venezuelan President Nicolás Maduro.
Weeks later, everything started to
unravel.
>> We bring you breaking news from
Anthropic. The Department of Defense
demand that Anthropic allow full use of
its AI technology without guardrails.
>> Anthropic drew red lines, refusing to
let Claude be used for mass surveillance
and autonomous weapons, putting the
company on a collision course with the
Pentagon.
>> The tech giant facing a deadline today
to accept conditions or it'll be
blacklisted.
>> Does a commercial entity have the right
to determine how their products are used
by the military?
>> Lawsuits were filed, and Anthropic was
banned from the Pentagon, underscored by
strong words from President Trump and
Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth.
>> Anthropic is run by an ideological
lunatic who shouldn't have a
>> that's not my question. My question is
AI
>> decision-making over what we do.
>> Do you mind being called an ideological
lunatic or a bunch of left-wing nutjobs?
>> Um you know, I've been called worse
things than that all the time.
>> What does winning this fight actually
look like?
>> I won't even call it a fight. This is
more a debate about what the proper use
of AI by the government is. And AI is an
emerging new technology. We don't
understand the ways in which it's
reliable or unreliable. We don't
understand the ways in which it promotes
our values or undermines our values. And
so, one of the things that I thought was
important was to establish a precedent
on some of the some of the use cases we
think are good, which frankly is most of
them. Um and and some of the use cases
that we're concerned about.
>> A US official has said, "With the help
of LLMs, the US military has gone from
being able to hit a thousand targets a
day to five thousand targets a day. That
means Claude can help kill more people
more quickly."
Are you comfortable with that?
>> Basically, you're asking like, you know,
do you believe in this country, right?
Do you want this country to be a more
powerful actor rather than a less
powerful actor on the world stage? I do.
I'm a patriot. It's not up to me. If we
provide a technology, it's not up to us
to say you can do this military
operation and you can't do that military
operation. Now, I might privately
believe that this military operation
makes sense and that military operation
is a bad idea, but we're not going to
deny the technology. You You basically
have to you know, you have to leave
policy in the hands of the military
decision-makers.
>> Bloomberg has reported that Claude is
being used by the US military in the war
in Iran
to do AI-assisted targeting via a
platform made by Palantir, Maven Smart
System. In February, a US missile
reportedly hit a girl's school in Iran,
killing more than 150 people, most of
them children.
Did Claude play a role in that strike?
>> We don't know exactly how,
um, you know, these models were used.
You know, obviously, like, you know,
these things that that, you know,
mistakes that happen in warfare are
really, really terrible. Like, this is a
really terrible thing to happen. We were
willing to risk the future of our
company to like limit how, you know,
these models are used. And, you know,
what what you're talking about is a use
case that doesn't even violate our red
lines. We're worried that there will be
100 times as much, you know, with with
use cases that that that do violate our
red lines. Now, I, you know, I I I, you
know, again, again, I would say I think
overall the use of these the the use of
these models is appropriate. I think
it's good on net. Um, you know, but
military decision makers make terrible
mistakes even what even even at the best
of times, and I I don't know if we're in
the best of times. What we've seen here
is Claude assists, but a human makes the
final call. So, a human made that final
call, not Claude. Imagine if you had a
world in which not Claude, because we
haven't allowed it, but someone else's
AI model, the AI model just makes a
decision and the human never sees it.
That's what we were standing up for.
That's what we were fighting against.
>> This school had a website. You could
have found it in a Google search. Like,
shouldn't Claude have spotted that? And
it does it speak to a scarier issue
about using technology as a shortcut in
war?
>> The principle that was obeyed here is a
human makes the human makes the final
decision. I don't know what role Claude
or any other AI had, but like, if if
this isn't an illustration why that
principle is so important, I don't know
what is.
>> Is AI warfare
more likely to stop World War III, a war
between the US and China, or is it more
likely to make it happen?
>> I would say on balance, it is more
likely to stop it. But, if we have no
limits on how it's used, then I think,
you know, it could be more likely to
cause it. You've seen Dr. Strangelove,
right? The premise of it was like, you
know, you have a doomsday device that
automatically fires nuclear weapons when
it thinks nuclear weapons are being
fired at it. What could go wrong, right?
I think the way conflicts happen is
that, you know, the the two sides jump
at each other. They misunderstand each
other. And when we don't have proper
oversight of this technology, I think
those kinds of accidents are more likely
to happen. Now, I think if AI is used in
an appropriate way in in in not even
warfare, but think of just just
intelligence collection, um you know,
let let's say we're able to, you know,
predict an invasion of Taiwan or a new
movement in Ukraine, like, you know, our
adversaries will think twice about uh
you know, about conducting some kind of
invasion or military operation if we
know everything that they're doing.
>> AI's role on the battlefield raises
difficult questions, even for a company
willing to debate the ethical dilemmas
of its own technology.
It's a conversation Amade seems eager to
have in [music] public.
How do you handle the pressure?
>> I try very hard to communicate and
always be straightforward and honest. I
get [music] up in front of the company
every
uh 2 weeks and just talk for an hour
about just what's on my mind, what's
going on in the industry, what's going
on in the outside world. It's totally
uncensored. And not only does it build
trust, it's very freeing for me where I
feel that I have 3,000 [music]
people who are on the same page as me.
That is an incredible amplifier and is
one of the most useful things in hand
handling the pressure. Then, when we
have to confront an external challenge,
stand up to, you know,
some very difficult situations that
we've seen in last few months. That is
what allows us to have a consistent and
coherent position. And And I think I
think it's an incredible advantage
because I never feel like I'm alone.
>> Lurking in the background at Anthropic's
headquarters was a surprise development
of a new AI model called Mythos.
A model so powerful, it spooked
everyone.
>> Anthropic's making headlines almost on a
weekly basis. Most notably now around
Mythos.
>> The company believes it's this enormous
threat.
>> Imagine a world where everyone had a
nuclear bazooka, basically.
>> Mythos identified thousands of
cybersecurity vulnerabilities, exposing
potential flaws in every major operating
system.
>> [music]
>> Anthropic signaled that if fully
released, Mythos could hack banks, pry
open state secrets, and critical
infrastructure.
>> I think the thing that surprised me most
about it was the models had been
climbing in their ability to find
vulnerabilities. It was a particularly
large jump. Some of the early companies
that we gave this to said things like,
"This is a super weapon. You should have
to own a gun license to use it. Please
don't release this."
>> In an initiative called Project
Glasswing, Anthropic gave select
organizations access to Mythos.
Even federal agencies [music] like the
National Security Administration
clamored to use it, despite Anthropic's
blacklisting by the Pentagon.
>> I think the future is this kind of
cat-and-mouse [music] game where we need
to make sure that the good guys
have the tools [music] that they need to
defend. And then at some point, the you
know, the bad guys will have it, too.
And And at that point, we have to make
[music] sure the good guys have it even
better models so they can be ready for
this.
>> Is it possible to stay ahead of the bad
guys? Really, though?
>> That's what we hope.
>> The criticism is you're effectively
deciding who gets access and who
doesn't. Why should anyone be
comfortable with that kind of
concentration of power?
>> It wasn't like, "Oh, it's so powerful,
and let's decide who gets the power." It
was a very specific concern around
cybersecurity. And so, the way that we
decided who to give the model to was
grounded in that specific fear. There's
obviously nuance to decide like, "Where
do you draw that circle?" I think that's
really complicated. I think we've tried
to be as publicly
um open as possible to say, "We're
trying our best to make this decision
well, but like
we might not do it perfectly."
>> What about the folks who say this was
just good marketing?
>> You know, we we have suffered enormously
commercially from not releasing this
model. This model has incredibly
accelerated uh research within Anthropic
and production in next models. It would
do the same in the outside world if if
we were to release it. This has hurt us
enormously commercially.
>> Have you had to make trade-offs already
that you're not entirely comfortable
with?
>> Throughout the entire history of
Anthropic has been trade-offs. Right? In
some ideal world, you would prefer to
before you release the first chatbot,
you know, you could spend years
studying, you know, every every possible
thing that could go wrong with it. Now,
we did delay. We did delay the initial
release of Claude, but you know, we did
it for a few months. So, everything is a
trade-off. Now that we're in, you know,
what I would describe as a commercially
leading position, we can afford to move
the dial even further toward being
careful. Right? That's what the Mythos
release was about, right? It's very hard
to do something like that if you're not
the leading player.
>> There's this argument,
"Why wouldn't the government take you
over? Why would they let a private
company control technology that's so
powerful?"
>> So, I think I actually think that's a
very uh that's a very serious question,
and I share those concerns. I don't
think the government should outright
take us over.
Every previous powerful [music]
technology we've seen in history was
either built by the government or
originated with [music] the government.
So, nuclear weapons, obviously, you
know, initially built by the government.
The internet, GPS, cell [music] phones,
AI is the first technology that's been
built in the private sector. Um and
where government [music] has not really
had a serious role and is coming in late
to the game. I think that's actually a
dangerous and unstable situation.
[music] It is not the situation I would
have chosen. This technology, I'm scared
of companies having it, but I'm also
scared of government having it. [music]
And then, you know, we need basic
regulation to the technology, you know?
More and more, as I've seen what we've
seen [music] with Mythos, you know, I
think we need to start doing pre-release
testing, required pre-release testing,
[music] testing and auditing of the
models.
>> This was an approach the White House
rejected initially.
On his first day [music] back in office,
President Trump, with the help of former
AI and crypto czar David Sacks, [music]
dismantled President Biden's AI
executive order seeking guardrails,
instead favoring a hands-off, let
Silicon Valley do its thing [music]
approach.
>> We believe that excessive regulation of
the AI sector could kill a
transformative [music] industry just as
it's taking off.
>> But with Mythos and its national
security implications proving hard to
ignore, [music] the White House now
seems to want to gatekeep the world's
most powerful AI.
>> It's very funny to me how there's a
particular group of people in the tech
world in Silicon Valley. They started
with the position of like, you know,
even having transparency around this
technology, even export control, you
know, this is all, you know, just
totally it'll apocalyptically destroy
our potential to create the technology,
it'll kill innovation. And then as soon
as they see the first real danger, which
I've been expecting all along, there's
all this talk of like nationalization
and the government should just seize it.
Come on, folks, here. You're yo- you're
yo-yoing from like the most extreme
anti-regulatory,
if you look at us the wrong way, you're
destroying the industry to, you know,
this completely communist, the
government should grab it all. We we
need
>> [laughter]
>> we need a more we need a more sensible
moderate approach. That's the one we've
been favoring all along because we've
we've understood the power of this
technology. We're not panicking, we're
not denying it. We see this move
exponential and we're responding to it
appropriately.
>> The [music] reaction to AI right now,
it's intense.
Anthropic has built this really loyal
following. There are some people who
just love what they stand for, but
there've also been protests right
outside their office. There's a lot of
anxiety, a lot of confusion, there's
some real anger right now about what's
happening, and it actually feels like
it's escalating. [music]
>> Artificial intelligence
is the next industrial revolution.
Oh.
Woo!
>> If you look at the data, people are more
concerned than excited about what's
going on. They think the risks outweigh
the benefits, and the truth is, if you
talk to the people who are building
this, even they will tell you they don't
fully know how it's all going to play
out.
How do you think about the weight of
this moment?
>> I worry that something will go wrong.
You know, are we doing literally
everything we can? We're certainly
trying our best, we're certainly trying
very hard. What I want is to create a
situation where if this set of people
can't do it, it couldn't be done. You
can't guarantee success, but maybe you
can guarantee that.
>> It's getting personal. Sam Altman's home
down the street has been attacked. How
is that affecting you?
>> It was really scary to read that. I
mean, it was we were obviously extremely
relieved that he and his family were
okay. In general, I think this is a
time, you know, technologically,
politically, where unfortunately,
there's just a lot more
rhetoric and and words that I think can
lead to to bad outcomes and bad things
happening. I hope that this is a topic
we can all just debate, you know, as
peacefully as possible.
>> It was scary to me, too. I mean, you
know, this is like a a less savory
aspect of the exponential, right? That
as AI gets more and more of of a big
thing, like, you know, it becomes just
such a big deal to society, there's more
attention on it.
>> There's been massive backlash against
social media. Countries are starting to
ban it. Could that happen to AI?
I think it's it's absolutely possible.
If the social media companies could go
back in time and see the world that they
see today, would they do anything
differently?
I like to think the answer to that is
yes. I don't know. If we sort of project
some of the challenges that the social
media companies have faced around child
welfare, mental health, election
integrity, all of these topics, we're
really lucky that we're we're second. We
view it as our job to try and
proactively think about all of the
things that could go wrong, because if
we don't, who's going to?
>> You know, I don't know that they
actually set out to do the right thing
or make the world a better place, and so
I don't think if they were going back,
they would even knowing what they do,
and they certainly should do things
differently. I don't know if they
actually will, but we can't. This is why
we're trying to get this right the first
time instead of waiting for things to go
wrong, then
scrambling to justify why it's all okay.
The main way I could see
AI being, you know, banned or blocked is
if something really went wrong. And if
something really went wrong, then maybe
it deserves to be.
>> You have technologists saying, "It's
going to be amazing." and others saying,
"It could be awful." Where are you on
that
spectrum?
>> I hope the best, but plan for the worst.
For me, this is the most important work
I've ever done. For some people, it
feels like this is the last job. Because
this is sort of the it could mean the
end of work.
>> [music]
>> And I think for other people it's, you
know, like maybe it's not the last job.
But it's existential to get this right.
[music]
And so there's just this this kind of
burden.
>> If the impacts could be
as significant as we're talking about,
as significant as Anthropic has warned
about, what responsibility do you think
Anthropic has to cushion the blow? What
do you owe the people whose lives
you've upended?
>> I think our view has always been
we ultimately are responsible as an
industry, the industry that's developing
this technology, for thinking through
what are the risks, what are the bad
things that could happen, and if some of
those things come to pass, what is our
role in helping to fix them?
That is our job, right? We should not
just say, "Well, we were just trying to
grow the product and suddenly there's an
entire generation of young women who
have eating disorders or who have mental
health problems because whoops, we were
just trying to grow the product." That's
not the stance that I think any
technology company should take. I don't
think that's the stance that we're
trying to take.
>> For a company whose identity is so
wrapped up in
>> We want to do this right. We exist as a
AI safety company.
>> How can we just help all of this go
well?
>> It can be hard to understand why
Anthropic is pushing so hard to advance
AI
>> [music]
>> while being so upfront about the
dangers.
In his essays, Dario lays out what the
end game looks like if everything goes
right with AI. A utopian future where
machines and humans work side by side.
[music]
AI, an inevitable force steered toward
prosperity rather than catastrophe.
To mitigate the devastation of job loss,
he proposes solutions like universal
basic income and progressive taxation of
AI companies.
But as the Amodeis confront the messy
[music] realities of power, politics,
and profit, the real test is whether
that founding mission can survive the
scale of what they're building.
Google started with the motto don't
[music] be evil. A founding promise the
company quietly retired as it grew.
>> You are building something incredibly
powerful. And stand to gain enormously
from it. Why should we trust you?
>> I think starting from a position of
distrust, you know, if you don't know
anything about me, if you don't know
anything about Anthropic is pretty
rational. I think Silicon Valley has
lost a lot of the world's trust and kind
of has to re-earn it. And the message,
you know, we're trying to send is we're
actually different and and that has to
be earned in things that we actually do.
>> I understand one of your favorite books
is the making of the atomic bomb.
>> That is correct.
>> Do you see parallels between yourself
and Oppenheimer?
>> The figure I most identified with was
Leo Szilard who was the one who first
had the idea that there could be a chain
reaction.
Look, my view is we're we're not going
to get through this with like larger
than life personalities or like figures
who try and be at the center of
everything. In some ways actually see
Oppenheimer as a failure case as what
should not happen. There's a lot of
powerful actors who have interests here
and the only way it's going to end well
for everyone is if there is some there's
basically checks and balances
everywhere.
>> You've said
there's roughly a 10 to 25% chance of
civilizational collapse. That is not
insignificant. Is there a scenario
where it's something that Anthropic
built that caused that?
>> Uh I mean, I certainly hope not. My view
is that that probability comes from the
very straightforward recipe of the
technology, the existence of many
countries in the world, the existence of
many companies within an economy and new
ones created if the void is isn't
filled. Like that's the dilemma that
we're in. Half of what we do within the
company is trying, you know, reduce the
risk as much as we can, but it's never
going to be zero. Suppose there are a
bunch of, you know, airline companies
out there and you're like, "Well, I'm
going to make an airline company that's
safer." It can both be the case [music]
that, you know, your airline company is
10 times safer than all the other
airline companies, but if someone comes
and asks you like, "Can you guarantee
that your airplane will never crash?" I
mean, how could you how could you
possibly?
>> But if there was a 25% chance of [music]
an airplane crashing, you wouldn't get
on that plane.
>> That's right. 25% is too high. We're
trying to make that probability much,
much lower. That's that is that is the
goal.
>> [music]
[music]
>> How do you find your Zen? How do you
relax?
>> Uh you know, it honestly, a lot of it's
just exposure to to it, you know, I
sometimes I'll just like, you know, I'll
just take a weekend and I'll like play
some video games, sometimes with Danila.
Me and my wife go to Italy sometimes.
Uh we have a horse there, so I'll just
I'll just sit there next I'll just I'll
just look at her horse and I'll be like,
"You know,
Calypso, who's our horse, like, you
know, she doesn't know about any of
this. Like, she's just a happy horse,
like
>> [laughter]